# SBSPS-Challenge-1274-Intelligent-Post-Lock-Down-Management-System-for-Public-Transportation
## Overview:

With nearly 2.48 million cases of coronavirus around the world, countries across the globe have been grappling with ways to stall the spread of the pandemic. The number of cases across the world have continued the exponential growth since last month. However, there are a few countries that have been able to limit the rate of growth and 'flatten the curve'. Flattening the curve involves reducing the number of new Covid-19 cases from one day to the next. This helps prevent healthcare systems from becoming overwhelmed. When a country has fewer new Covid-19 cases emerging today than it did on a previous day, that's a sign that the country is flattening the curve. To do so, we have created a user friendly application developed with the services provided by IBM with an interactive Node-Red UI.

## PROPOSED SOLUTION
Our strategy is to design a smart transit platform that can analyse crowd distribution inside public transport and public spaces in near-real time and identify two metrics- space occupancy and space utilization. The analysis can be done by marking the available seats/spots by a visible marking and using it to determine how many spots are unoccupied in a space under consideration through visual recognition. The near-real time analysis can be visualized by the user to assess the space (like inside a public transport or a station platform). The application can also prompt the user whenever the space under consideration has an occupancy of, say, more than 35% and alert the user.
As a preventive measure, a non-contact infrared thermometer can be attached in a secure location at the entrance of public transport vehicle so that temperature of each passenger is measured before boarding and if body temperature of the person is detected to be higher than normal, it should trigger an alarm and he/she should not be allowed to board the vehicle. The passengers will also not be permitted to sit in the first row so as to maintain a safe distance from the driver. Further, a thermal camera can be installed inside every vehicle to keep a track on the heat signatures of the passengers during the journey and the data can be visualized on the platform so that the user may take immediate action. To protect the drivers from the risk of infection, there will only be one functional back door.
A Chabot can also be designed that can take user information and suggests the person whether he/she is fit for traveling or not.
After nearly two months of lockdown, the biggest challenge businesses will face will be restarting their operations. To get businesses back on track, we will have to ensure that we work within the constraints of what we are allowed to do. Our solution ensures that transportation businesses work within the hygiene and space constraints which will cause a new changed market dynamic that will be catered by the ‘vehicle sanitation’ business. Locally, the cost of sanitising a two-wheeler is Rs 20 and for disinfecting a four-wheeler is Rs 50; service centres and workshops (of Mahindra & Mahindra, Hyundai and Maruti Nexa) offer services from Rs 175 to Rs 1,500 for sanitation and disinfection. Our solution also gives rise to new employment opportunities for daily-wage labours like putting up visible markings in public transport and public spaces, etc. Once the transport operations kick-off, it is safe to say that people would be able to travel to their workplaces which means being a step closer to restoring the economy. As transportation becomes safer, more people would get comfortable to travel making our transportation business revenue-generating in no time.
